everybody welcome to a very special
edition of pre-recorded Q&A I was like
what do I call it smell because I was
going to be a lot doing a lot of
traveling this month so we want to make
sure that we still get to all of your
questions so we've been collecting them
and keeping them and trying to do these
quick mini episodes so that you guys
still feel the love word so by the time
you see this I will actually be in
Europe so if we have any European peeps
out there we are going to be doing a
meet-up in London so hopefully you guys
keep your eyes peeled that's on our
Facebook page right on Tom's Facebook
page as well as impact Theory page and
it's going to be in central London
location to be determined and it will be
June 15th at 7 p.m.
BAM there it is yeah all right now it is
a rock and roll
Tom and Lisa and like oh I don't know
that I can promise Lisa will be there
welcome I wonder where ureas family
obligations yeah yeah so maybe maybe we
have a guest appearance advised well
certainly me well we made sure to make
sure we made sure to make everyone aware
and when this was going to be I just
have to say that jacket is fly thank you
- ours today - bust it out I don't wear
my Blazers enough well they don't like
star in the closet but oh and if you're
in the Los Angeles area we're going to
be having our first impact hour which is
like a happy hour but it's impact Theory
version so join us for cocktails and
conversation on June 14th at the den on
Sunset in Los Angeles also at 7 p.m. and
just check out Tom's Facebook page or
the impact Theory page for more
information
nice may I be able to join us he's not
21 no well ok is making a baby
is there anybody else younger well maybe
oh god of course well young Williams
whoa it will literally can we say it now
because he's graduated I don't know they
haven't let him walk yet but he played
hooky a couple times in the name
of impact theory yeah I know
well you said call me out of school
sometimes I don't think I ever skipped a
day of school ever that's not impressive
to me like I was just used try would to
take my own personal break sometimes I
was I'm telling him a rule follower like
I was so terrified of school I was very
much I follow the rules but always I was
like the loophole finder so it was more
so my strategy I was still within the
guidelines and boundaries but you know I
could kind of convince because like you
know between like doctor's appointment
if you schedule them at the right time
you can get like full day you can get
your absences returned and you like all
the rules in and out so they're like I
could kind of been a good seller all
right so enough of that and we will dive
right into some questions so this one
comes from the net Georgia Nicholas
Zartha our boy from Greece our Greek
friends how do you respond to the loved
ones who seriously underestimate your
potential do you tell them to shut it or
shut them from your options sometimes I
want to prove them wrong with my success
but their doubt is so overwhelming that
I start to doubt myself
Wow so let's break that out there's two
parts really so one I believe doubt is a
gift let me say that again
I agree doubt is a gift man if you know
you're going to do something that you
will stick with it you're not afraid to
pivot or change directions whatever but
they you know you're going to go after
the things you care about you can go
after them hard and you're not going to
stop and get tired you're not going to
stop when you get bored you're going to
stopping you when you're done like when
you know that about yourself then doubt
as a gift and so man I actually wish
more people in my family without me at
this point my family they don't doubt me
externally like they don't vocalize it
they may all doubt me like crazy but
they don't do me the kindness of any now
exactly it's the reason that that is a
gift is because I believe that human
beings are wired to leverage two
different things one the beauty of what
you're trying to create the people that
support you and love you and want to see
you succeed like that's amazing that
feels good it's going to give you energy
and I think you should spend 80% of your
time there there are times however
especially when something gets really
hard really painful that and and I've
talked about this before but if you're
doing a research on pain tolerance the
one thing that they know universally
will allow somebody to tolerate more
pain is anger actually expressing anger
so if you put somebody's arm in an ice
bucket make them hold it there like at
first not so bad but then it really gets
to the point where like this hurts and
when it gets to the point where it hurts
if you want something like 30% longer if
you let people go and like
really express like anger and rage
they'll be able to deal with that 30%
longer so there is something you're able
to marshal the body's resources when it
gets really hard so in those moments
that's when I turn to the people that
hate on me that wanted to me fail the
doubt that I can do it like and use that
in that aggressive dominant way to
really push through and like under no
circumstances will I let that person be
right so that's incredibly powerful now
the second part is they're doubting you
so much that it's beginning to hurt your
own mind so now here's the thing one if
somebody is chipping away at your
ability to believe in yourself you need
to distance yourself from them now this
gets really hard when it's family but
it's absolutely critical to me like if
my family were bringing me down with all
the love and compassion in the world I
would let them know hey I can't be
around this level of negativity so we
have to come to an agreement either
you're just going to stop like keep it
to yourself or I'm going to have to
spend less and less time with you so let
me be very clear with the rules of
engagement are I love you like let's
really make it hard mom I love you mom I
love you more than you can imagine
I love being around you I want to spend
time with you but the things you're
trying to do to protect me because her
intentions almost certainly are good the
things you're trying to do to protect me
are actually eroding my confidence I
would not words like this these exact
words okay this is the exact
conversation that I would have with my
mom so it's beginning to erode my
confidence confidence is one of the most
important things anybody needs to
cultivate if they're going to go on to
be successful so I fully understand you
only have my best interest at heart that
you really want to help me in
want to make sure that I don't make a
mistake that could be very detrimental
to my life and my career and where I'm
headed so I understand that those are
all really really beautiful intentions
but they're having this unintended side
effect so because of that I need you to
stop or I'm going to have to spend less
than what some of you which would be
utterly heartbreaking for me so let's
agree to disagree let's agree that when
we come together that we're going to
talk about positive things beautiful
things wonderful things and then if she
can't help herself stop spending as much
time with her it's that simple it's not
easy I get how painful that would be but
you have to and when she then calls and
it's like you don't come around as much
anymore you say we have a conversation I
was brutally honest with you what I need
to protect my self-confidence I know
that you don't mean to do it but you're
still doing it I can't be around it so
until you can figure that out and let me
tell you all the times where you were
saying this out of the other and again
I'm not questioning your intentions I
know your intentions are good because
that's immediately where she's going to
go but I'm just trying to protect you
like I say those things I got they're
not really negative why are you taking
them negatively this is your fault
you can hear words like that and so you
just need to be abundantly clear I have
a line in the sand I love you of all the
empathy and compassion but I'm not going
to be around that so and then as
you distance yourself she will change
her behavior or she'll entrench if she
entrenches you know everything you need
to know about her mindset that's toxic
whether it's your mother or not and then
if she doesn't entrench and realize this
whoa like even if I believe to the core
of my beam that I'm not being negative
those things are perceived as negative
and that's one thing that you can say
that'll lighten the load hey maybe those
things really are positive but just so
you know I'm interpreting them as
negative they're affecting me at a
visceral level as negative so for me to
keep coming around they have to be
excised from our relationship period
symbol mmm
so I mean just going back to the whole
doubt thing like I really do feel that
people doubting you is very important to
pushing you to that next level sometimes
just because you know I don't know you
get to be spiteful almost and you want
to do something in spite of everything
that they're saying and by scares me
maybe maybe not spike but like you know
I mean like where you have this
unshakable belief in yourself
that you're going to do it anyway so how
would you go about maybe fortifying that
for yourself sir like if her family is
kind of chipping away at her confidence
where should she turn to maybe create
some of that confidence well so
confidence is only internal so nobody
can give it to you people can puff you
up but that's very different than real
confidence so one humans lead would
believe so I'm about to give that this
is master class stuff because it's a
little contradictory but they're both
true so humans lead with beliefs you
have to find a way to believe in
yourself even before you have any
earthly right like based on your
accomplishments and all of that to
believe that you can do it you just have
to understand that you only take the
steps that you believe in so the only
thing I think people need to focus on
building their confidence around and
that that core belief is not that you
are great but that you can become great
at anything you set your mind to like if
people are willing to believe that
humans are just capable of that like
once you can believe that humans truly
are capable of learning anything that's
when you can really say I can believe
that
so it's like the transitive property
right humans can learn anything they set
their mind to I am a human therefore I
can learn anything I set my mind to like
boom there you go that's the only belief
that you need to then start taking the
steps then the other is that confidence
comes from competence so actually
getting good at something like that's
where you're going to be really
confident like knowing that I'm good at
this like that's where you get your
confidence on confidence is a
fascinating thing and it will come and
it will go and you could be one of the
greatest in the world and you're going
to have to constantly monitor yourself
talk constantly monitor how you're
feeling about yourself because in an
instant you literally you could have
back-to-back emotions where I'm the
greatest of all time and then you like
try and fall on your face like I'm a
loser likewise thank you thanks it is
it's crazy but you just have to stay on
top of it and manage it
yeah all right so our next question
comes from Vinny Brigance from Facebook
what is something
rajab north or people learn over only
after it's too late well I don't know
that I ever think that it's too late so
I don't want to get hung up on that but
later than you would want for sure I
really don't think most people believe
they can do anything they set their mind
to I don't think they believe that any
problem is solvable and those are the
two most critical beliefs for any
entrepreneur tab so you face problem in
your business and if you believe this
just fundamentally isn't solvable then
you closed your mind right so the reason
that I play the no what would
it take game is I'm trying to get past
like yeah that's right boom available
now in the impact Theory store so the
reason that I play that game is because
I'm trying to remind myself there is a
solution I may not like the solution I
may not be willing to implement the
solution but there is a solution so
identify like that game is so empowering
because you free yourself from the
limitations of even morality okay and so
okay I'm going to free myself from
morality and I remember thinking about
my sister right and thinking okay her
being overweight is really messing with
her emotions and it's making her feel
badly about herself so what could I do
to help her get lean kidnaper take her
into international waters confine her so
that she could only eat what I gave her
I'm going to disguise myself because I
don't want her to hate me for this I
mean like some straight V for Vendetta
and if I did that and I take her
out to international waters so I'm going
to go to jail for it if I do all of that
like she could think fat thoughts all
day long she's going to get lean it is a
fact that I ology right you can give
people certain things the they are going
to get lean period so the problem is
that while that would address the issue
of her getting lean I'm never going to
do that I think it's a moral I think
it's absolutely sinister and I think
that it would set her up to hate me so
completely I would never want someone
and that to me so but it was like in
opening my mind and going that actually
would work it's a horrible solution but
now I know this problem isn't unsolvable
right it just may be a question and so
then the other answer that we came up
with or we could make food
she could choose based on taste and it
happened to be good for her and at the
time we rejected that as well and so I
felt like Coppola sleep loss I had two
solutions both of which would work
neither of which I was willing to do one
was amoral and I could never get behind
that and also wouldn't solve the
emotional problem and then the other was
so unbearably difficult that I was just
like Jesus like I'm not going down that
path
but of course eight years later that
becomes quest yeah and so and it really
was just getting to the point where we
could believe that we could actually
execute against that so that's like that
game is so powerful so entrepreneurs
being willing to do that being willing
to step outside a just being able to
step outside of all the confines of
their belief system right and say okay
this is solvable like maybe the
technology is not there whatever but
like what what would that solution look
like that gets you in a creative State
it gets you thinking like beyond your
boundaries and then you can begin
because it's actually like the or we can
make the food that was the second answer
but it was getting out of like all of
the confines and just saying what would
work now what we would do but what would
work right that takes you into like this
difference it's kind of like meditative
it takes you into this different place
where you can think from a whole new
context and that's where the interesting
ideas come and so I find that game
really fun and I love it like when
somebody says we could never do that
like in a meeting and you know this I'll
stop the meeting and be like all right
right now we're going to come up with a
solution and I'll force myself like into
that mental space where it's like
anything is possible every problem has a
solution what is that and I find that
because that like so fundamentally
challenges my belief system that right
there like I can come up with crazy
ideas because it's the mind when you
make that demand like solve this problem
when you make that demand you'll be
amazed where you can come up with yeah
you rise to the occasion hundred percent
so there you go all right so this one
comes from b2b training from YouTube is
it a good plan to have other ideas
besides your main plan so that if for
some reason it doesn't work out or isn't
as you wanted you can then move to your
plan B
straight away or should I keep at just
one plan pushing through it even if it
appears the Avenue is closing absolutely
not no plan B burn the boats now having
said that if you're already in a job
you're making some money there's no
reason to quit your job and all of that
like keep that keep paying the bills but
in terms of what's that real vision that
you're trying to build don't like
nickel-and-dime yourself like I'm going
to have three things it's like pick a
horse write it right so let's just beat
the analogy to death you're in a room
there's a thousand doors your job is to
shut 999 of them and walk through one so
don't plan for failure because then your
mind is thinking about all the things
you don't want you get what you focus on
so if you're like hedging and like
planning over here like instead take our
boy Richard Branson's path which is I'm
going to launch an airline and I'm going
to protect myself from the downside so
I'm going to make Boeing agree
contractually to buy it back if my
airline doesn't succeed there's no
reason not to protect yourself from the
downside there I'm a huge believer in
that but in terms of like what is your
path what are you trying to accomplish
what is the thing that makes you feel
come alive like do that like don't try
to have a bunch of different things you
will be so distracted you won't do any
of them well so pick one thing go hard
and allow for the like emotionally
prepare I may fail spectacularly in an
ugly horrific fashion but I've done
everything I can to protect my downside
I really believe in the thing that I'm
doing and I really believe that I'll
learn from the failure if it comes I'm
not going to think about it I'm not
going to plan for it I am literally I
have a why there's something that I
believe in so much that I'm prepared to
give myself to it completely and I think
that that notion of give yourself
completely to it like I am NOT
conflicted about what I'm trying to
build here which is why I don't mind
dedicating seven days a week I don't
mind spending an inordinate amount of
time on it I got you know my wife and I
did it together so that we could be
growing together like spending money on
it reduces not a problem because I know
exactly what I'm trying to do and I know
why I'm trying to do it so yeah that's
my answer there it is and that's not to
say that if it's like a multi-step
plan that you can't like break it down
into a smaller part and if it makes it
like easier to digest but it's more so
if you have that like giant separate
plan that's just as big so it's you know
choosing the one yeah all right so this
next one comes from Igor Schmidt from
YouTube as well hey Tom if you were to
start impact theory or something very
similar related to interviews like this
maybe even a podcast with all the
knowledge you have but no money and no
connections how would you do it would
you start where would you start and how
would you scale if you don't want yeah
yeah so basically in the early days of
in sidequest that's where we were we
weren't throwing we spent money on the
set it would be unfair to say that we
didn't but I would so I'd do it as a
podcast to start there so I don't need a
set I would do it over the phone so that
I didn't need to see them in person or
if I really wanted them to be seen I
would do it via Skype I would find out
who I have connections with that are
interesting so like for instance the so
I graduated second in my class still
pains me to this day the guy that
graduated first I reached out to him so
he's gone on to have a very interesting
career as a sound designers name is
Erica doll it's one of the first people
that I interviewed just just a very very
kind generous and insanely talented
human being and I thought okay like it's
not like he's world famous I have a
connection because we went to college
together right reached out to him and
said hey I'm doing this interview show
man my whole thing is to really give you
a chance to shine so that I'm not a
journalist I'm not like doing
hard-hitting stuff like it's been
inspiring to watch what you're doing and
I just want to give you a chance to like
bring that to the audience so doing that
another one of the first people that I
interviewed was just one of our
employees and just thought he was an
incredible incredible human being and so
again asking him questions giving him a
chance to shine like starting with
people that they weren't world famous or
anything but they were going to add
value like I knew that they had a story
to tell something to offer that I could
learn something from them and just go
out and do it and so in today's age
where I mean it doesn't have to be
flashy like this you know
that just dude over Skype I can't tell
you how many interviews I've done where
I literally it's just me with headphones
in and I'm talking and the you know it's
like middle of my day and I just set
aside a little bit of time for it there
are people out there if you're
legitimately moved by what they're doing
and you believe in what they're trying
to accomplish that letting them know
like hey in some small way like I want
to help with that and I just really
think that my viewers would be inspired
by what you're doing like that's the key
and then honestly men and this is where
everybody goes wrong get really
good like you better be a good
interviewer like don't but like I can't
tell you and you'd never know because
what I'm practicing is being a great
interview II when I'm being interviewed
but I've been interviewed by people they
suck at interviewing and I'm like homie
homie how many like come on me I'll like
put the time in no what like can I tell
you do you know how many people do you
know how many people call me up and they
say how do you pronounce your last name
do you know how many interviews I've
done Cindy there's like many we say
every day on the show it's like several
times with their billion how do you not
know how to pronounce my last name now I
never bat an eyelash I tell them yay but
in that moment I'm like be raw they're
like 100,000 video I mean that's it so I
think that that's like and like we're
not doing our homework here so get good
get good by the time I started doing an
interview show I had interviewed in a
business context over 1,500 people so I
knew how to ask questions I knew how to
like take it where I wanted to go like
get nuggets of wisdom like figure out
what does person have to offer me and
then even in a non business context I
believe everybody is my superior in some
way they have something to teach me and
so learning how to sit at people's feet
and extract knowledge like I spent years
and years and years developing that
skill so get good get good like get good
like don't you want to be great at
something hell yeah right like I want to
be great and that means a whole lot of
effort a whole lot of it here you here
first and remove there it is
so this next one comes from William and
Colette you talk about starting the day
with meditation I've tried this but
always fall back asleep
what exactly does your process look like
so what that tells me is this person
probably needs more sleep I'm going to
guess you wake up to an alarm stop
immediately and then by the way like if
what you really need is sleep that's
awesome that you fell asleep during
meditation right get your rest
like and look there are absolutely times
where I'll fall asleep on the exhale
like into does out through my mouth and
I do this hold at the end of my exhale
and all of a sudden I'm like well I need
like what the happened like I
totally fell asleep and it's usually
like they're in the period there for a
while for whatever reason I was getting
like exactly 5 hours so we all know my
rule if I get 5 hours of sleep I don't
try to fall back as soon as I get out of
bed I have 10 minutes to get out of it
and it was just like five hours five
hours five hours five hours five hours
and when I do it like a couple days like
I don't even notice but too many times
and like during that period I was
calling asleep when the guy was cutting
my hair and I remember like so he's
cutting my hair and I'm like have you
ever been so tired where it is
legitimately unbearable to keep your
eyes open yeah so I was like I'm just
causing mine so I closed my eyes during
the haircut I'm like okay don't start
doing the like the head bobbing you're
gonna end up with a up hair right
exactly so I'm like okay don't do that
don't do that but like I would feel open
your eyes so I'm like alright dude you
need more sleep
but I don't set an alarm so I'm like
what do I do
and I'm waking up because I'm just
either I'm excited or I'm stressed one
of those two things is going on like if
I'm overly stressed about something I'll
wake up yeah and then if I'm overly
excited about something I'll wake up
buzzing and so I'm like oh god like I
need to get in a better vibe so anyway
just sort of naturally I fell into a
better rhythm and I started getting six
hours from nine seven hours and then
then five and that's a very manageable
thing so if you need to get sleep my
thing looks like this would be really
testicle I've talked about this more
than probably anything I work out first
so that's like a shot of adrenaline so
I'm up I'm awake
and then I meditate immediately after
that and I'm really trying to focus on
my breath and there's a reason that I
fall asleep only on the exhale which is
that even when I'm really really focused
on the breath I hold my breath on the
exhale for I'll say 10 minutes 7 to 10
seconds to be conservative it might be a
little bit longer than that so it's just
long enough that haven't really tire
down anything to do other than
experience the pleasure of the breath
and so that's where like I'll dip out
the rest of the time that you know each
part of the breast cycle maybe only 3 or
4 seconds so I just don't I'm not
falling asleep there so and I'm really
focused on milking the highest degree of
pleasure out of each part of the breast
cycle as possible so it's like I'm
active so I'm trying to be calm and
creative I'm not trying to be calming
asleep so yeah that's a big part of it
maybe change your posture because I'm
sitting up like it's harder to follow
this and certainly not impossible but
harder to fall asleep and not laying
down if you lay down forget it
like you're gonna fall asleep so setup
decent posture yeah that's my what I do
absolutely and like you know like Tom
said if you need sleeps get to sleep
I've like falling asleep in meditation
or shavasana so many times should fall
so no savasana it's like the corpse pose
at the end of yoga corpse yeah it's like
you literally lay back and it's like
you're kind of in that rhythmic breath
it like ends every year goes well yes
it's like something cos boss Boston yeah
for me cuz I'm like yeah it's like it's
supposed to be where you let go of all
the tension so it's like you kind of
like finally stretch everything out
you're finished like you've done your
exertion and then you just lay down and
then you know it's kind of like
meditative like you can have an extended
one where there was a meditation portion
of it but then for some people it's just
like you fall asleep for that I've what
Colonel you shavasana shavasana again so
yeah get your sleep if you need to and
the thing is it's also totally welcome
just you know relax yourself
so our next one comes from Instagram
from John z5z
time z5z so what is what is the
emotional payoff of having vague goals
and a vague path to execution why is it
the easy option and that this is in
reference to your Instagram post which
said if you want to make change you
can't be vague there has to be
specificity to your vision and your path
to execution yeah so Ryan holiday talks
about this pretty profoundly in his book
egos the enemy it was one of the most
powerful takeaways from that book where
he says one of the ways that people
pacify themselves is by having a goal
and feeling like they're doing some good
in the world like I'm going to do this
thing and and they're like imagining it
really thinking about it and because the
brain can't distinguish between thinking
about something and actually doing it
that you actually feel like you're doing
something like you know when people say
oh man I really want to help people I
want to do good for the world like
saying that out loud telling people do
you want to do that actually makes you
feel like you're doing it you know
you're not like you haven't done
anything right and so that is scary and
that's something that I think a lot
about is like okay like lip
I'm not joking when I look at my
important time that I put on the
schedule at a minimum from eight to ten
and I try to make it like from six to
ten like that time is aggressively and
only about execution doing things so my
list is literally prioritized by Lee
dominoes what's the highest impact thing
but I also try to keep the really
painful stuff all the things that need
to be done that I don't like doing like
contact like contracts right so it is an
absurd amount of hours that in my
important time it's just contracts right
because a they're important because
things will stop in the contract phase
because it's like there's always
something better to do so like just make
sure that every day I've got the time
carved out to do that and the myriad
other things that I don't enjoy doing to
make sure that I'm not pacifying myself
because I get a chance to come on here
talk so passionately about what we're
trying to accomplish that dude it would
be so easy to like five years from now
just still be talking about it and like
hey I think soon and never actually
making it forward that skin I have
forced that to become the most
terrifying thing in my life so yeah
don't do that that is a very real thing
about the human condition your mind will
be pacified simply by thinking about it
so you've got to hold yourself to a
standard of execution you've got to like
keep a list and say like hey like date
it if you have to so I put this on my
list back in July oh my god July like
it's June and I'm still not done that's
madness and so that you have that level
of accountability to make sure that
you're checking things off and moving on
and that it really was will be domina
like audit yourself did I choose the
right thing to put on my important list
or not or did like I go nowhere from
these things so yeah the human mind is
pacified by thought alone you can have
to put things into practice to make sure
that you're actually getting things done
and then audit yourself to make sure
they actually moves you forward exactly
and like doing like vision and like gold
sheets so you like have to set a buy one
and like having one a buy when a but
like I will have this done by X date
that way you know that if it's coming up
you're like oh I have to do it
either I have to do it or wasn't
important so kind of setting those
systems in place for yourself and and if
you're using a bi wind a piece of advice
don't change it know if you have to
update that's why you haven't put it in
like a sheet print it out and like hang
it somewhere or put it somewhere where
it feels permanent and if you for
whatever reason realize that you're
you've missed the date whatever so now
you need to give yourself a new date
leave the old date there and put the new
ones so that you can see like whoa I had
told myself originally it's going to be
done in April now I realize not going to
be done till the end of June but I'm
going to leave that original April date
so that like there's some shame in that
mmm better tonight yeah so many that I
would put it in red I'm like oh you're
gonna balance sheet red means like that
you've lost money so it's like a real
thing yeah that's smart yeah yeah so
that's it for our Q&A today um so be
sure you do guys thank you so much for
joining us uh
and keeping me I'll be very active
socially so when you're watching this
again I'm going to be in Europe but I'll
be super active socially still so hit me
up if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
take care oh yeah and send any more
questions that you have for any of our
future Q&A is to connect at impact 3com
yeah all right thanks guys